step-1.adoc, before:

=== Step 1 - Basic Jenkins setup

Let's start by creating a basic setup to run Jenkins within Docker. First off let's create a directory in the root of the repository called `jenkins`. Inside this folder we are going to create a `Dockerfile`. Now let's give this file the following contents:
```
FROM jenkins:2.7.4

USER root
RUN apt-get update \
      && apt-get install -y sudo curl\
      && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
RUN echo "jenkins ALL=NOPASSWD: ALL" >> /etc/sudoers
RUN curl -sSL -O https://get.docker.com/builds/Linux/x86_64/docker-latest.tgz && tar -xvzf docker-latest.tgz
RUN mv docker/* /usr/bin/

USER jenkins

COPY config/config.xml /usr/share/jenkins/ref/config.xml
```
This `Dockerfile` ensures that an account, named `jenkins`, is created and given administrator rights, and also copies the Jenkins configuration file (that we will create next) to the correct folder.

Now we are going to create a `config` directory inside the `jenkins` directory. Inside this directory create a file called `config.xml`, with  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sebivenlo/jenkins/f57e42cc4f16d9bb0620b1d22f01df3c9a62954b/jenkins/config/config.xml[this] content. This file contains the basic configuration for Jenkins which will be used throughout this workshop.

Finally inside the projects root directory, we will create a `docker-compose.yml` file. This file is used to start the Jenkins' Docker container and exposing it on port 18080. We will give the file the following contents:
```
version: '2'

networks:
  prodnetwork:
    driver: bridge

services:
 jenkins:
  build: ./jenkins
  ports:
    - "18080:8080"
  networks:
    - prodnetwork
  volumes:
    - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
    - /usr/local/bin/docker:/usr/bin/docker
    - /opt/jenkins/:/var/lib/jenkins
```

[WARNING]
For now, linux users may leave the volumes part out. This currently
appears to work only under Mac OS-X and windows, because of the
virtualisation that is used in those cases.

Now that we created all of these files and directories, we should have
something like this (created with the `tree`-command):
```
.
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── docker-compose.yml
└── jenkins
    ├── Dockerfile
    └── config
        └── config.xml
```

The order in your output may differ, that is no problem. However, make
sure the `config.xml` file lives in the directory `config`.


Let's verify that Jenkins is working by executing the following command inside the root of the repository: `docker-compose up -d`. The `-d` parameter ensures that Docker starts in a detached / daemon mode, meaning that the current console window is not consumed. If everything went well, then Jenkins should be accessible at the following URL: `http://docker:18080`.

Commit message:

adapt volumes section of docker-compose such that it works cross platform

step-1.adoc, after:

=== Step 1 - Basic Jenkins setup

Let's start by creating a basic setup to run Jenkins within Docker. First off let's create a directory in the root of the repository called `jenkins`. Inside this folder we are going to create a `Dockerfile`. Now let's give this file the following contents:

```
FROM jenkins:2.7.4

USER root
RUN apt-get update \
      && apt-get install -y sudo curl\
      && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
RUN echo "jenkins ALL=NOPASSWD: ALL" >> /etc/sudoers
RUN curl -sSL -O https://get.docker.com/builds/Linux/x86_64/docker-latest.tgz && tar -xvzf docker-latest.tgz
RUN mv docker/* /usr/bin/

USER jenkins

COPY config/config.xml /usr/share/jenkins/ref/config.xml
```

This `Dockerfile` ensures that an account, named `jenkins`, is created and given administrator rights, and also copies the Jenkins configuration file (that we will create next) to the correct folder.

Now we are going to create a `config` directory inside the `jenkins` directory. Inside this directory create a file called `config.xml`, with  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sebivenlo/jenkins/f57e42cc4f16d9bb0620b1d22f01df3c9a62954b/jenkins/config/config.xml[this] content. This file contains the basic configuration for Jenkins which will be used throughout this workshop.

Finally inside the projects root directory, we will create a `docker-compose.yml` file. This file is used to start the Jenkins' Docker container and exposing it on port 18080. We will give the file the following contents:

```
version: '2'

networks:
  prodnetwork:
    driver: bridge

services:
 jenkins:
  build: ./jenkins
  ports:
    - "18080:8080"
  networks:
    - prodnetwork
  volumes:
    - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
    - /opt/jenkins/:/var/lib/jenkins
```

[WARNING]
Mounting a non-existing directory as a volume results in an error during the docker build processes. Ensure that the directories exist on your host machine. 

Now that we created all of these files and directories, we should have
something like this (created with the `tree`-command):
```
.
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── docker-compose.yml
└── jenkins
    ├── Dockerfile
    └── config
        └── config.xml
```

The order in your output may differ, that is no problem. However, make
sure the `config.xml` file lives in the directory `config`.

Let's verify that Jenkins is working by executing the following command inside the root of the repository: `docker-compose up -d`. The `-d` parameter ensures that Docker starts in a detached / daemon mode, meaning that the current console window is not consumed. If everything went well, then Jenkins should be accessible at the following URL: `http://docker:18080`.
