step-5.adoc, before:

=== Step 5 - Create Jenkins Job
After we have installed our Jenkins server, let's do something meaningful. Let's create a job for the link:https://github.com/sebivenlo/statemachines[statemachine] project.

Therefore, at the homescreen of the Jenkins site click on _New item_ and provide the job with a name like *sebivenlo-mavenstatestack*, choose _Freestyle project_ as project type and click on _Ok_.

Now, Jenkins is asking us to configure the job in detail. First of all, we have to choose the right _Source Control Management_ system. Because the project is available on GitHub, Git is the right one. For the _Repository URL_ we set the link:https://github.com/sebivenlo/statemachines[URL] of the Project.

[source]
Repository URL = https://github.com/sebivenlo/statemachines/

Because the project is a public project, we don't need any credentials. So, we can skip it. The other settings in the SCM section can remain at their default values.

[[img-scm-configuration]]
.The SCM Configuration
image::configuration-SCM.png[SCM Configuration]

The last step for the configuration is to tell Jenkins how to build the project. Fortunately, since the project is a Maven project, we only have to tell Jenkins where the POM file is located and which goal should be executed.

Therefore, click _add build step_ and choose, _Invoke top-level Maven targets_. Now, choose the Maven version (Maven 3.3.3) which we configured in the previous step and set the maven goals to

[source,bash]
clean test

Afterwards, click on _Advanced_ and specify the location of the POM file which will be executed. This is the relative path in our repository.

[source]
mavenstatestack/pom.xml

[[img-maven-build-configuration]]
.Maven Build Configuration
image::configuration-build.png[Maven Build Configuration]


Complete the configuration by clicking on save. So far, so good. Let's
have a look whether our fellow students did a great job. If we can
build and test the project without any issues, everything is fine
:). For that, choose the job and click on the _Build Now_ button on
the left-hand side of the Jenkins menu. Now, there should be a new item at the _Build History_ list at the bottom. Click on it and check the status. You can have a look at the _Console Output_ as well. The result of the _Console Output_ should look something like this:

[[img-maven-console-output]]
.Console Output of Maven Build
image::console-result.png[Console Output]

Well done, in this step we learned how we can configure a Jenkins job within the Jenkins environment as well as how we can build the job manually.

Commit message:

update references to sebivenlo/statemachines repository to copy of mavenstatestack located in branch.

step-5.adoc, after:

=== Step 5 - Create Jenkins Job
After we have installed our Jenkins server, let's do something meaningful. Let's create a job for the link:https://github.com/sebivenlo/statemachines[statemachine] project.

Therefore, at the homescreen of the Jenkins site click on _New item_ and provide the job with a name like *sebivenlo-mavenstatestack*, choose _Freestyle project_ as project type and click on _Ok_.

Now, Jenkins is asking us to configure the job in detail. First of all, we have to choose the right _Source Control Management_ system. Because the project is available on GitHub, Git is the right one. For the _Repository URL_ we set the link:https://github.com/sebivenlo/statemachines[URL] of the Project.

[source]
Repository URL = https://github.com/sebivenlo/jenkins/

Because the project is a public project, we don't need any credentials. So, we can skip it. Since the test project is located in a branch other than the git `master` branch, we have to specify it by adding `*/ci-test-project` to the _Branch Specifier_. The other settings in the SCM section can remain at their default values.

[[img-scm-configuration]]
.The SCM Configuration
image::configuration-SCM.png[SCM Configuration]

The last step for the configuration is to tell Jenkins how to build the project. Fortunately, since the project is a Maven project, we only have to tell Jenkins where the POM file is located and which goal should be executed.

Therefore, click _add build step_ and choose, _Invoke top-level Maven targets_. Now, choose the Maven version (Maven 3.3.3) which we configured in the previous step and set the maven goals to

[source,bash]
clean test

[[img-maven-build-configuration]]
.Maven Build Configuration
image::configuration-build.png[Maven Build Configuration]


Complete the configuration by clicking on save. So far, so good. Let's
have a look whether our fellow students did a great job. If we can
build and test the project without any issues, everything is fine
:). For that, choose the job and click on the _Build Now_ button on
the left-hand side of the Jenkins menu. Now, there should be a new item at the _Build History_ list at the bottom. Click on it and check the status. You can have a look at the _Console Output_ as well. The result of the _Console Output_ should look something like this:

[[img-maven-console-output]]
.Console Output of Maven Build
image::console-result.png[Console Output]

Well done, in this step we learned how we can configure a Jenkins job within the Jenkins environment as well as how we can build the job manually.
